Hello everyone and welcome to this
phenomenal panel called Blog-Driven Businesses
in Latin America. My name is
Mercedes Madani from Leader of Partnerships
at By Brand, the virtual wallet
developed at Estelar. It's an honor for
me to be here today with the leaders of
Block Change in Latin America.
I want to give a brief introduction so you can get to
know them. I see we're all here, so let's
start with Rubén. Hello Rubén, and
welcome. Tell us a little about
Voz y de Arte.
Hello, how are you? Can you hear me well?
Is this Cristian?
Perfect. Well, I'm Rubén Galindo,
the CEO of El Tiempo or Sitio. I've been
in this job for seven years. It's been
a great adventure. We started
with the mission of giving
financial freedom to the people of Latin America
because we believe it's a
human right to have
access to financial services that
let you do what you want to do. And
many times,
as I said, "Are you listening?" "We're
not listening, 65, friend.
My computer is telling me it's
changing the audio selection." But well, we think it's
fair that people have access to
financial freedom, and because of that
feeling of... Injustice! We
created this platform so that
everyone can have access to money that
is connected to the rest of the world,
no matter where they are or
the conditions in their countries. And
I love being here in a
blogging discussion because I believe that
this financial freedom movement,
or this fight, is a
decentralized fight being waged on
different fronts by different
companies that make up different parts
of the ecosystem. And I would love for
this call to result in more
entrepreneurs willing to
join the battle, taking on a role in
any of
the verticals or
supply chain steps, to give
Americans and people all over the
world financial freedom. Thanks to
Ruben, the mission is impressive. And well, we
want to hear more. Now, let me
introduce Jacques. Thank you for your
invitation. Hello everyone, I'm Jack
Saracco, co-founder and leader of business
development and partnerships in Seattle.
We are the largest fiat ramp in
Latin America. We acquire
users by letting them buy crypto
with local fiat in Argentina, Brazil,
and Mexico. And well, it seemed very logical.
Rubén, we started in 2018 with the
goal of helping the masses,
everyone, to transition
from fiat to crypto in the
easiest, fastest, and most scalable way possible.
I think we're in a
phase of greater infrastructure, where the
art is richer, and we aim
to help decentralize
institutions with
centralized applications that want to start
attracting users and giving them financial freedom.
But we're always thinking about how to
give Latin
Americans, who mostly
suffer from inflation and excessive
monetary power, the opportunity to
give this power back to the people and
the user instead of letting
a few keep it. So that's what we do
at Zettel, and I think I share
exactly the same view as Rubén. If we
can get more entrepreneurs from this who
want to create more applications
with more motivation, creating a
bigger crypto industry, everyone
wins. Thanks for the
intro. We also want to hear more about
Voz and being a network. Now, hi
Milagros, can you tell us about
Voz and how close you are to Bay Brand and Mercedes
Sole? And thank you for the invitation.
My name is Milagros Chorro. I'm the
content marketing lead for
Buy Brand by Frank T. It's a
digital wallet that uses
blockchain technology and allows you to buy, store,
send, and receive. Our
wallet is developed on external
blockchain, which makes it possible for
users to send and receive
unlimited transactions for
free. We're also part of the Steller
Development Foundation, the
non-profit organization that oversees the
Steller network. To tell you a little about my
personal story and how I got here, I have a degree
in international relations and have
worked in marketing for a few years. A
little over a year ago, I couldn't have known
this industry. I'm
super happy to be here and to
share this event with this incredible
panel of speakers we have today.
Thank you so much, Milagros. I want to clarify for
those watching that Milagros and I
work together, and it's amazing to have you
here on this panel. And now, Matías,
eager to hear about Voz and
Cronos Page. It's
a pleasure, and a pleasure to
everyone else for being here. Thank you. I
'm a co-founder and I'm the head of Cronos,
but it's a startup that
basically focuses on this fight. As
the guys were saying, the
difference between big and
small players in South America, with all the
struggles of the big players and the high
costs of transfers and collections, is significant.
We basically apply all the
technology of Block Change, particularly to the
Stellar platform, trying to optimize all
those channels and bring
cost optimization and
transaction speed not only to individuals
but also to companies,
entrepreneurs, and freelancers. We also focus very
importantly not only on
online payments but also on
in-person payments, which I can
explain in a bit more detail later if you'd like. We
want to hear from everyone.
Impressive and super innovative. Well,
with this panel of 10, we want to spread the word about
the possibilities of Block
Change technology and continue to boost the ecosystem by
democratizing access for
users, developers, and
entrepreneurs alike. We believe this panel should be
interactive, so if you have any questions,
please ask them through the chat.
At the end of the talk, we'll
try to answer some.
Okay, let's begin. I want to start with
a pretty simple question: How
did you discover Block Change, and what's your
story in the ecosystem,
Rubén? Let's see if you want to start over.
Sure, with pleasure.
I started in Blog Change in the... In 2015,
maybe in 2014, someone invited me to
breakfast in November
to talk about Bitcoin. I
was at my best friend's house; he's getting
married tomorrow, and I have to write some
pitches for his wedding. There at that
table, I had an offer to go and be
an
intern at what were the first sexting-
described programs that existed, and it was called...
but
I didn't know if I wanted to go. We just wanted to go so much. I
arrived in San Francisco on January 1st or 8th,
I think, of 2015, at this startup, and
our task in this state as
interns would be to sell it. We didn't know who we
could sell the promise of the
block to. They even had their own
Research Inc., which was a
very unique abstraction of the blog for their coins, and they
were doing it before everyone else. We
tried to sell it to
mobile phone companies,
banks, remittance companies, but nobody wanted it.
Then one of our co-founders
said, "Look, here we have the
technology that would help us give
anyone access to free money. Who is
this free money thinking?" And we're going to
understand... Why people were using Bitcoin from
Argentina to Venezuela, and obviously it's
quite easy
or simple. The reason is that people see
value in this technology because
they lack financial freedom.
So,
working in the pulp industry, wanting to be an
entrepreneur, and being from San Francisco, that's how
the idea came about to
fight for those who
lack freedom, leveraging
both of us. I loved the story, and well, the
best part is writing
to your chips for the
wedding, not exactly, not exactly. If
you want, I can
tell you a little bit about how
I started around 2016-2017,
describing it for the first time, seeing
where it was moving, how it interacted.
I think as Argentinians, the vast majority
got into it because of
inflation, the peso, the potential to
create a reserve that no one
can touch and that they can erase from being the owner
of it. In 2018, the question
was how do we create something that has a lot of
future value? And our analysis was,
we see that today
99.99% of the world's money is on the
institutional side, on the
fiat side. How do we create something that
directly helps people? To
get into Christ, we had a... I
personally had a pretty
difficult time, it was poorly written. I had to
buy P2P from people and buy
a little bit of Bitcoin every now and then. The
transactions were in cash because otherwise I was
afraid that someone would take advantage of me. So,
somehow
we thought about how we could solve
that problem. Well, that's how we came up with the idea
of ​​making a ramp. Look at
that moment, and then a bit
inspired by the idea of ​​a ramp, look here. This
product can be clicked on; it will
be a product for
sending and moving money
internationally from one place to another. We had
many clients who were asking us for it,
and at that moment, in early
2019, the question was, "Okay, which is the
cheapest block, the one that allows you to send
funds from one place to another?" We started looking at
absolutely all of them, all those that
were in the top 10, top 20 at that time. Of those,
5 remained, which are still there
today. Well,
Stellar among them, we said, "Okay, let's start
doing operations on Stellar
because it's scalable, it's fast," and today,
from the mindset of an Argentinian with...
The costs in Argentina didn't make sense;
paying in mystery for an angle that cost
between $4 and $8 was the GAFI (Global Action Fund). We said, "
Well, this is unscalable." It started in
Argentina, but it's already very expensive. So,
what's cheaper than the Dominican Republic?
Well, Estelar was also a
name, not for us, and that's how we
became Ramp Fiat Era Corp for
everything related to fabric. We created the table
with the Argentine currency and the
Brazilian real. Very good story, good,
very visionary too.
Five years.
Well, to share, my story is
very different and very recent
compared to Jackie and Rubén's. Their
delivery to the world of Block Sing during the pandemic.
In my case, before starting Block
Sing, I worked for other startups that
had nothing to do with Chinese
crypt blogs. And while it seemed like a
very interesting industry in which I had
worked previously, at that time I
was close to finishing my studies.
I wanted to start exploring other
industries, growing a little more in
marketing, and that's how I got to By
Brand. I got there for work and
ended up falling in love with blogging.
But, well, at the beginning, having no
experience
in this, I had to immerse myself and
learn from scratch. All the new
concepts and knowledge that I didn't have...
I knew a little about blogs without knowing
much about crypto because of my previous job,
but well, my knowledge was super
limited compared to what I know
now. The truth is, as I was saying, I was lucky enough to
work with a low-
cost option like this one, and I think that played a
super favorable role in allowing me to
experiment a bit on a personal level
with crypto. And also, Bailantas, let's say
months before I started
working, saw the opportunity to give
Argentinians this alternative means
to protect themselves from devaluation, and what I
liked most about the app is that it's
designed to expand access to
students like me. Yes, it has a
great mission, which is to democratize crypto,
making it super easy, allowing
all Argentinians to
access a secure wallet in their profile.
So, that's a bit of the
story of how I discovered... well,
thanks to Milagro, and well, I hope that
all the recent graduates
watching us are inspired and encouraged to
join the ecosystem. So, yes, that's
it. So, my journey
also started as... Being
Argentinian, I was looking for ways to
maintain the value of the currency around 2015,
which I became very involved in.
After that, I was heavily involved
in the development side, trying to
provide solutions for
document certification based on origin. I
delved deeply into blogs to
understand how to assign value to a
digitally transmitted document and
verify its authenticity. This was
the first multinational company I'd worked for in a
long time,
and it was a success. What we
did was
certify educational documents. We
brought this project to the US, and there,
we basically added
a QR code to the university document.
This QR code was used to certify that it truly
came from the issuing entity and verify that the
person was presenting it for work,
for example, their academic record. So, I
started strong with the blockchain aspect,
especially the certification side.
After this, understanding the
South American landscape and seeing that there was a
payment processing technology that had
n't been updated in 20 years,
we're now 100% focused on trying to
modernize it. Those payment processing
with BlockChange and basically with the
Stellar solution, so that's how we are. Well,
thank you, Matías. I love seeing the
different paths you took, and well, the
use case you just described in
terms of how you enter, which demonstrates
the different
capabilities of what you can do in
BlogChange and not. So, well, great. Okay,
another question. I'd love to know more
about how Piti Sanz BlogChange operates in
his companies and what he believes are
the main benefits of BlogChange
for his clients. Let's start with, since
this time it works perfectly. Well,
we are native to BlogChange.
You understand that we created the
company to be able to provide solutions for
written companies and BlogChange companies
in particular.
One of the services we offer,
as I mentioned, is that we accept fiat
in Argentina, Basic, and Mexico, and we provide
scripting services. You can make purchases,
not only of decentralized applications
to wallets and ecosystems, but also
to
institutional clients. We have many companies
that do corporate banking, whether on one
side or the other. From that,
we are very interested in working. We realized
that there was a very
high cost in remittance transactions,
both for
retail people who have access to
US money, for example, to
Latin America, or for companies
wanting to pay their Argentine or
Latin American subsidiaries. We saw that there was a
very high cost, so the opportunity to
use a block change was incredible
because having a double option—low
cost and fast execution—made us
very scalable. This was especially true for the
counterparty, which would be the
institutional banking services that have been
developing for the last 50 years.
Logically, in 2018 and 2019, it was
very difficult for us to get
people from these companies, like
Txemi, to understand how they could use these transactions to their advantage.
When they
really started to see that they were saving a
lot of money, especially in their
stocks, and began to see the genuine use case
in their day-to-day operations and in their own pockets, it became even more challenging.
But when they started wanting to repeat
the operations with higher volumes and
began to tell people, saying, "
This works, and it's real," I think it's very
important to highlight that in 2018 and
2019, many They believed that writings, and
before that, not much
crypto production remained, as something illegal, something
from the black market that you shouldn't get involved in.
Today, I think 2022 changed
the perspective a lot. Today it seems like
entrepreneurship, innovation, and the future
with a lot more agility and transparency,
when just a few years ago it wasn't like that. And
I think that we're going to start
seeing more and more companies
moving in this direction. It's
incredible that many more people from the
institutional sector are starting to give it the option of
registering as a medium to
interact financially in the future. Great!
Thanks for the details. I love
hearing about companies that
develop the infrastructure and
ramps in Latin America that continue
working on access to blogs and
getting more people, let's say more
end users, to join. I think it's super
important. I think we're
like a
bridge that takes people from
fiat to crypto, and the objective of
applications, like you'll see, like
the Mokro footer, I don't know, is also to
maintain users and
give them a service within the cryptocurrencies,
while we are the bridge that
interacts from one side to the other.
Great! I'd
like to add, I think He's absolutely right,
given that we're on a panel with other
entrepreneurs. I think it's important for
everyone to see how the Chinese blog
is not just technology that
allows—I'm saying specifically
applied to payments—but it allows for
much smoother and cheaper payments, this
exchange of information and money. It's
also
technology that democratizes access
for entrepreneurs to participate in a
business that was previously
extremely exclusive and
only available to banks and
financial institutions that
needed a huge investment to
participate. In a way, we, as
industry leaders, are intermediating
these players, the dinosaurs, and it
's now completely open; anyone can
participate. So, it makes me not
only a disruptive technology but
also, I think,
a great tool for starting
businesses and generating value with or without a
few barriers to entry.
I absolutely love it. I totally agree. It's
great to communicate this to
entrepreneurs so they know it's
possible and are encouraged to join
the ecosystem. And so, obviously, everyone
on this panel, as industry leaders,
I think it's crucial that they join
these talks and tell us a bit about
their story, what they're doing today, and
the problems they're solving
so that we can evolve.
ecosystem together
and to talk a little about this, well
in our case with Buy Brand, as
I mentioned before, Fiverr gave
Argentinians the opportunity and access
to a means to safeguard
the value of their assets, and well, as an app
developed in Estelar Vaivén, it was
specifically designed to extend
this access to coins pegged to the
price of the dollar, like me, yes, yes,
and I think that with respect to the
general benefits of this technology, I
think the most important benefit we
could highlight
for us is decentralization.
I think it's a
key characteristic of the technology, and it's
its strength, since to
authenticate transactions or operations, you
don't need any kind of
intermediary, and this obviously allows for
reduced validation times. On the
other hand, we have the fact of
network distribution. When you
have a distributed network, in the first
instance, nobody owns that network, and I
think that means users don't always
have a record of the
information. And also, as
the guys mentioned before, the
technology has very, very low costs
for users, which I think is
the star advantage of blockchain,
and well, in our case, in the case In the case of
Buy Brand, transactions in the
systems described are also carried out by
individuals without any
involvement from a central control body.
What does this mean again?
Without any intermediary.
This allows for a reduction in costs, let's
say. Network maintenance makes it
significantly
cheaper, right? And lastly, I think
we could also highlight, as
the guys mentioned earlier, the speed.
Crypto transactions are super
fast to process, I'd say
practically instantaneous, and I think this
is also a great solution that
Blogs Reynolds has the power to streamline these
slow banking transaction processes. Great,
thanks Milagros for telling us
more about By Brand. And now,
Matías, regarding Canon, in the case of Cronos
Pay, I
know of a Cross case. Basically,
we were born 100% in Blogs. It was
also the decision about who
would fight to run a bit of what
we talked about: cost, speed of
distribution, and we all chose Estelar
for that reason. But we were born in Block
Change, always thinking that
technology
will help, as it is helping, to
change the payment processing system.
Going into a bit more detail,
when an account is generated within
Cronos Space, an account is automatically created with
Estelar,
and from there, depending on the country,
a bank account is generated for that
country. It requires, and there we use
the other stilts of the ecosystem to
do the Rambo, a ramp-off, as
Jack said, of this vile coin and the connection
to fiat in each of the countries, and we also
use the
crypto stilts to sometimes get out, water,
yum, str, sub-20, depending, let's say, on
the alternatives that are required, and
adding a little to what
Rubén was saying, the reason why, let's say, for me, the
importance of all these changes, or of
people from outside the traditional financial system
getting involved, I want to be
electronic, I have a
master's degree in
finance, but my education wasn't, let's say, in
the financial part, but rather we
were a little more than anything from
the experience and the problems we
have in emerging countries, and a
little studying how all this was composed,
you see that the banks
initially
worked with these systems, and that there are
several and they are unique, and that they always took
turns so that it remained within
their very closed ecosystem in the
financial part, until at a certain point a
very select group, let's say, generated
a very elite club where they went to eat
caviar and in a very particular way, and that's where
the first credit card was generated
Created in the club, which was the one for
dinners, and they say it was
used, let's say, for those types of
transactions. That's when
banks started generating their own
credit cards, and the
banks themselves own the
credit cards. So it's still the same
ecosystem. And today, where are we
going with Cronos Page? That is, there's
a possibility that Blanchett technology gives us
to try to avoid all those
high commissions charged for
centralized transfers. We can
use a different method so that
anyone who might have a
business in Peru, Ecuador,
Charco, or any province
in South America or an
emerging country can collect payments with their phone,
with no costs, and the money goes
to intermediaries instead of people. It's
great, it's a new paradigm. And
well, I love hearing that all these
companies are like blogs on Late Night, I don't know, that they
started directly in
blogs. So
I think it's super innovative, especially since they're
trying to optimize a system,
not completely change it. I think it's great.
And now I see an interesting question in the
chat: they ask how they see
the developer market in
Stellar, particularly. Other other
blocks in Snow, as Jon
Solana says, and which are concentrating talent,
see that they can be a chalet for
climbing or developing new ideas.
I think that as entrepreneurs we can't
be married to a
particular technology because what we want is to
solve
people's problems, and people have
problems that may need
different technologies. From our
perspective, we see that by
dedicating ourselves to giving
people crypto dollar accounts, and with so many
different
versions of crypto on different
platforms or in different options,
we have to be
as versatile as possible to fulfill our mission, and we
have to be compatible with
any technology because what
matters is not what technology you use, what
matters is your ability to solve
people's problems. What I like about
Tela, compared to the others, is that
Tela is very focused
on creating decentralized rails
for money, to connect the
world's money. And then all the investment
that the Stellar team makes, which is
truly a super team, and obviously
today I'm going to
say that because Stellar
investors of time and of
ours, but I've
worked with them for a long time,
we've worked with them for a long time, and I
can seriously attest to that. The quality
of the team and you
can also see the amount of investment they
make in developing the ecosystem, not
only by
bringing in participants like Artem or
Acero, or by creating their own
tools like Bailén to understand
how their technology should be used
from the entrepreneurs' point of view. They
also do
versions with giant companies like
MoneyGram, and they are also working on
sets with Justice and
Exchange, and also with Stand,
working closely with regulators.
They have a 100% focus on the financial sector,
and the others have more of a
website focus. We are going to create the
decentralized world, and so
imagine that huge task. From
the decentralized world, a
very big part is getting money in and out of the
decentralized world, but the truth is
that they are trying to build everything
from scratch, and I think that, as an
entrepreneur, gives me a lot of
anxiety to think that I have to do
everything because you can't do everything.
So, around me,
the star postcard is well focused
because I believe in the approach. I
totally agree with
the question. Very interesting.
You respect it. I think I share what
I had thought, directly,
which is to learn specifically. It was each blog
who wants to solve Some
particular vertical of the Web 3 world, for
example, in JR, they want to somehow
solve the gaming benefits part. You
also have within
Solana's writing the Solana part, and look at what they do in
Spirits, Solana, which is like
Defy, cheaper within what the
competition,
I think everyone wants to take on a role in
the different, infinite verticals
of Web 3.
Without going any further, in Action Clean, he indicated
that it wasn't useful for him to
do
gaming, so he went out to do his
own Blues in Running as an example. It ca
n't be absolutely everything; it's
a great base for many things,
but they're going to visit different
verticals to execute other things. I
think that, as Rubens Telar said,
the main focus is finance and
payments.
If they execute that well, they can
grow a lot with the team that
has the highest probability of executing it.
It's more focused than other blogs because
we have to show the use case. Well, in
Tracing, even the burning lives, it's that the
huge, it's true, and Pierre
Transactions, Juan, with how many
temptations with transactions can be
made, by what means, how fast, at
what cost, they aim to streamline a
very particular niche Web 3 is
where I see the
biggest disruption coming,
which is in finance—logically,
decentralized, fast, and inclusive. Great!
We're touching on a lot of topics, including
interoperability, so a
discussion can emerge about Web 3 and Blockchain.
We're all working on
how to make it much more
interoperable. This is just the
beginning; the boxing world is like
a baby, we're only in its
early years, and we're all
working to make
all the systems more interoperable.
And your companies are also
focusing on all these super
interesting topics. And the questions you ask us...
well,
one more question about the
ecosystem, and specifically about the roya (roya)
we're discussing: how do you work?
How do you see the
Stellar ecosystem, and do you work together, or how do you
collaborate within the ecosystem, not
only Stellar but also in
the Blockchain ecosystem in general?
Within that ecosystem, as I mentioned,
we have a pillar that
connects fiat to crypto.
We work with many
companies because, ultimately,
we are the
infrastructure provider for the others.
Decentralized centralized applications can shine and attract
users in the region. We
work with most of the
panelists. We work well with Artem,
with Buy Brand, LED production, and
Fiat ramp in Argentina, Brazil, and Mexico. If
all goes well, we're also close to reserving
the Cronos service.
But we work both in the
Stellar ecosystem and in other
ecosystems like Incidío and the one
from 20 years ago, providing
liquidity and payment gateway service
for those users who want to
start using crypto within
any of the applications.
Within that, within what
is Fiat Honor, we also have,
as I mentioned, in our table coins,
Arte and Barrilete, which would be the
Argentine peso and the
Brazilian Técnico, respectively.
They are entirely in English to be
used by anyone who wants to be in the ecosystem
within the member sets,
which is the Stellar integration. So
anyone who wants to be can
use it, and it can be a means of payment
for any application that
wants to copy within this ecosystem.
Yes, well, as Argentina,
obviously, it's a source of pride to have the RCT, which for
Those who are listening, what is the
table comment about the Argentine peso?
Well, I always say that number, I
mean, a very big step in being
one of the first to issue the
Argentine peso currency, and well, to be able to
start spreading it in the ecosystem.
I'm a fan of RCT
for you,
and well, Milagros, I mean, they
work with ADR for seven
hours. Since we're on this topic,
tell us a little about the function
of RST in the balance sheet.
Great. Well, in our case, also
answering the question of
how we work together with Stella, we
work hand in hand to
try to
solve, or perhaps resolve, a
very specific and important problem in Argentina,
which is the memory of values. You're
probably watching us from
different Latin American countries, but
as most of you know,
Argentina unfortunately has an
unstable economy. This brings with it
certain
consequences, one of the most noticeable being
the fragility of the currency, which,
unfortunately, we've already gotten used to.
But faced with that,
Argentinians tend to look for different
alternatives to be able to protect the
value of our money here in In Argentina,
one of the most used resources is
buying dollars, but with the obstacles we
have, and also the risks
of potentially buying on a
parallel market, Argentinians started
looking for other
alternatives. So, thanks to the
progress of blogs and after working
with this one, I'll share a super
interesting option today: buying
crypto. This not only allows us to
safeguard value, which I think is
again our number one problem,
but also gives us access to
this 100% digital economy. It also allows us to work
alongside, for example, to
have new
services. And going back to the
topic of the recipe, there is an
asset, a coin pegged to the value of the
Argentine peso. Through
deposits, Argentinians
can exchange these coins within the app.
There's Oasis and Literary, so if you're in the
By Brand wallet, great!
The recipe allows you to access the
dollar-denominated assets, acting as a bridge between
fiat currency and dollar-denominated assets, which is what
people want access to. So, great, I love
that.
If you want to make a comment It's going to
be because of the ecosystem issue. They were
talking about the positive thing I see
within these environments. What unites us, across other
ecosystems, is that we're working on
something particular:
working towards a
solution that impacts everyone's daily life.
So, from that
perspective, I think a
very particular camaraderie is generated among us
all. I know people within the
ecosystem who were even involved in other
projects, who are now also focused on
expanding, and who always
want to do
something to improve the situation for their country or nationality. We
always address issues like remittances,
maintaining the value of their
local currency, and helping their families
in other countries. So, I think that those who are part of this
blog have a situation that
we all share in
emerging countries. That's why this camaraderie is generated,
to try to help
each other, not just with the kids,
particularly in the area of ​​development.
I also agree that the selection of
blogs, which will be seen later, will involve a
purging of everything that's out there, and because of the dot-coms of the
world. The moment everything started,
those that have a
very specific focus on a particular market, a
vertical, and those are the best, will obviously remain.
So
basically, we're going to install them
because the objective is very clear, and it's not, let's
say, a
multi-sector solution with many
options for everyone, but rather the
optimization of financial matters, part
of remittances and other services. And I think that's
where the
focus will grow significantly for the
solutions we want. Our goal
seems very
aligned, as will the objectives
of not just creating
a star company like Cronos,
which has a specific goal. And
well, I love hearing in
the industry blogs how everyone works
together. I think it's something remarkable
because, more than anything, that's what
entrepreneurs are all about. We all know that the
entrepreneurial path is sometimes very
lonely and very difficult, so
having this camaraderie, this
help, and this support at the end of the day
seems incredibly important to me.
I think that's something that
stands out in the crypto world, although
we are very much involved with each other. I think
all the calls we're making, if we're
talking about a panel, always come up when
all the panelists finish. They are
really open to being
contacted, always through Twitter,
always through email, Telegram. Any
questions, let us know if we have a call, if
we can refer you. I think it was
the beginning where those of us
involved in the crypto world wanted to
help people get involved and
educate themselves because the risk of a lack
of education is very high. So I think you
see a lot of companies
working together to generate something
bigger, and
crypto entrepreneurs wanting to help and educate
people who aren't involved in the
subject today, to guide them to where they need to
go, how, and what the fastest way is
for us to get
involved in many
startup proposals that want to start creating the
Stellar world. They don't know anything about the sets, they don't
know how to integrate, they don't know what
an author is, and the truth is that we invest a
lot of time in receiving those calls,
accepting them, and really explaining
where and what to do because they also have to go through
the mindset. You have to go through it, and the moment they
reach the size and
level of my code that is acquired to
use any of these
products or any service, we can't
Collaborating, getting back in
touch with us, is great, and there are many we
've really helped to
understand what it was like to understand
what the next steps would be and how it would
help them or not,
for what they wanted to create.
I think that's one of the
most important qualities of the
written world, and that's how it's believed to have grown, in that
decentralization of helping each other between two
aggressors. That's what I
want to highlight again,
that aspect of the industry and
also of the Steller ecosystem, not in
having the power to call you, "You're
here," and not ask you those questions, and
having that guidance that can save you,
not only a lot of time,
but also how to have that
confidence in how to start and how to get
into the ecosystem and how to succeed.
I always wanted to put the
point of this place, which was to ask
a question that I would love for him to be
telling you about: what would
the steps be? He's already experienced the
future of integration. Tell me, what does it look like, what does it seem like,
and where is the
path I have to follow to help
people not get confused? I think it's about
saving time for the whole
ecosystem. As I've grown, it's happened to me
quite often,
and well, continuing with the topic of what
you consider necessary to develop the
integration of Jane blogs in a startup
or a new company, I'd love to
hear a bit from Rubén about what
advice you would give to someone who is
starting out. Well, I
think in the
same way
that
,
or rather aligned with the
decentralized technology method, I think that
just as all entrepreneurs are
quite open,
maybe they don't answer Lides because they're
busy, but surely they would all be
willing to help. Also,
all the information one needs
to be able to
frame this technology and adopt it
is everywhere on the internet; it's
open to all its teachers.
That thing I was saying
about Ron and the taxi fort, to be able to
have a version that was made to
measure, adjusts to the needs, and speaks to
how accessible it is. They can take,
copy, and paste their clone from the
outside or make the changes they
needed so that these actions
required more adjustment to their way.
You can leave it; there's a vulnerability, and they
lost a lot. Tajín mirror
at the same time, I think it speaks to how
accessible it is for anyone, and so
now, yes,
and responsibility from the entrepreneur. You
must be
looking on the internet for
the most reliable sources, and I think that,
compared to other
technologies, they've made working with
their keyboard super easy. Everything they
put in the Web 2.0 language is almost entirely user-
friendly, so that
a developer who has
already worked in the business
world can understand how to apply the
technology. There are tons of resources, and
everything they develop to help
all companies is here; everything belongs to
everyone. So it's a great way, I think,
to start. You can say, "How is it that they
give you a whole framework so
you can easily develop
your application?" And I'm
simplifying, you know my identity, I'm a bit of a
fool, but I see that our team—and I
never
say, obviously not all professions
have their own language, like this, very
solid and all that—but nobody has done
anything like that. However, in a
very familiar way,
the documentation and
infrastructure are made so that
our
back-end developers can
interact with, use, and test the
technology from home. So... Different resources
on this side, that's a really good point, a very good
point for developers.
The first question is always, "Do I need to
know your Olivetti to develop?" And
well, in that case, you have it. It's effective
in several languages, so that makes it
easier for someone who is a
developer and an expert in another
language to focus and
start easily. So, that's a great
point. And if we talk about
blogs in the UI, and I could talk for hours about
blogs, without a doubt,
the people listening are
also interested in knowing a little more
about you. So I wanted to see if you
have any stories or anecdotes
about being an entrepreneur or about
the ecosystem that you want to share with
those listening.
I think
in recent years,
the
anecdote is like a summer, and how
the market seems, how it looked
four years ago, and how it will look in the
next four years. In entrepreneurship,
four years ago we were crazy, all
the banks we called would hang up on us.
Everyone thought we worked with
drug traffickers, and everyone was
afraid. And really, when we
do everything possible to be in the The
most compliant option possible
today is the complete opposite. We have
banks calling us to see
how crypto can be used and how they
can innovate on the foundation of Christ.
I think that in the next four years, we'll
see that all banks will
incorporate crypto in one way or another, and it will
become the norm.
From four years ago, we'll
look like crazy people, and we don't believe that
today. If you feel like you
're creating something, maybe you can get on
the right track. Four years later, you'll be a hero
because you're trying to create a product that
today is perhaps very innovative for what's
coming in the future.
Yes, great, Matías.
Any stories to share? Well, it's a
comment I got from an
acquaintance. It was
more of a coffee chat when I started to apply, let's
say, a bit of what I think applies to
everyone who at some point started
with a Chinese blog. When you see
all the things you can do—
document certification, the
applications that finance can have, the whole
broad range of applications that
the financial sector has—
well, a lot of technologies to
apply, and I went with all that
momentum. Junior entrepreneurs, and without
my milk, have ideas about all this,
and he looked at me and said, "Look, the
reality is that even
as a vice president, he doesn't say exactly what you shouldn't
do. He tells me, 'You have to
try to find a
solution,
focus, and give 100% to that
solution.' One is the easiest decision
because with the energy and
desire you bring, you say, 'With blocks,
we're going to do a lot of things,' and you have a
lot of serious things as an
entrepreneur who starts with
this, but if I can add this, I
can have a bigger solution. For
me, the advice is to focus, give all your
contacts, all your energy, and
100% to one solution
and not try to be all-powerful and have the right to
do everything. Otherwise, you'll
define who can't do anything, and only
define a couple of things to
do, not everything that can be
solved.
Great! Focus is super
important.
Milagros, any anecdotes you want to tell us?
Well, I'll tell you a few. Cheers, Doctor. Well, it
happened to me that when I started
Trip to Blue Change to work in the
ecosystem, when I had to..." When I tried to explain to
a friend or family member what I was
doing, they didn't seem to understand.
I tried to explain what Jim's blog was, what
By Brandt did, and it was super
difficult for everyone to understand.
But little by little, with a
lot of patience, I started showing each
of my family members, uncles, and even my
grandfather how to buy By
Brandt bikes. It's super easy, and now, a year
later, I can't believe it. He
came and told me he'd bought one.
I decided to do a casting call on eBay,
26 Callao, I don't know, which is great. And
my uncle came and told me he'd already
bought one. Yes, yes, the truth is, I'm really
proud that in a
year I've been able to convince so
many family members and so many other people to join
the ecosystem, and I think that's
super important. It's an
anecdote I always like to share:
in a year you can do so many things, and
including so many people in the
ecosystem seems really
interesting to me. And with this story, I'll see
how, in a way,
working on blogs and also all the
people around you—not your
family, your friends, but in a certain way—it's about... The way
they start to get involved and find out, and well,
that seems super important to us,
Rubén. Any stories of yours? Well, I'm
going to offer some advice. I think
in the history of art there have been
many
horror stories
caused by war.
Venturing into this adventure with this
new technology has made life
difficult in a way because we
started as pioneers, knowing what it was going to
do to us, but at the
same time clashing with a world that already had
fibers that were elsewhere.
But that made it difficult for us at the
beginning to get up and running.
Convincing people to work with
us was difficult. We were
starting to evangelize everyone, and on top of that, we were
trying to set up a
parish that charged fees, so it was
difficult. However, what always
helped us was keeping in mind that what
we wanted was to help
people, and we have such a clear vision that it
allowed us to keep going
when things went badly, and me too. And
although things aren't easy, I
realize that what differentiates a
good entrepreneur from what happens is that
one stays with the
energy to keep going, and
another suddenly gets tired of
doing it.
A vision worthy of time, and
time itself, gives you the
energy to keep giving it your all, the
time you have to give it
so that your
company, your self-employment, is excellent and successful. So that's what I'm going to
tell everyone with this advice:
choose your missions well, and if you
have a vision
that drives you, then that's all you
need because the rest—
persistence—is there, but a worthy mission
that makes you persistent... I don't know
how it works
sometimes. So, this advice... and well, back to the
focus,
okay,
we find it super interesting
in terms of
financial inclusion. Financial inclusion,
yes, of course, that's a distributed mission
that aligns us all, and we all
benefit from it. So, they also have
a very powerful mission in
the world, boxing, which is really cool. Great,
thanks to everyone for joining today.
I see I'm echoing and I apologize, I don't know
why,
but I wanted to close by talking to
everyone and answering a question I
saw in the chat, which is how we can be
more involved with the ecosystem. And well,
Estelar is doing an event in
Mexico, not only in Mexico but also
virtually in May, which... The event that everyone
can join is from May 20th to 22nd and it's
called Startup Weekend or Blogs
in Mexico City. It's super long, but anyway,
I'm going to put the link to the chat channel so you can
see it and, well, so that,
according to the system, you'll be encouraged to participate. We
want to tell everyone that there's no
question that isn't
valid, so please contact us. I want to
thank this panel; it's an honor to
be here with you. And again,
the companies you've built are the ones
we look at every day, and
we're always waiting to see them
grow more and more day by day. We hope to
hear much more from you and your
companies.
Thank you so much for the invitation,
Brad Animals. I had an amazing time, and I
hope that those who listened on the
other side took away some insights. And
again, I'm
personally totally open to
helping you with whatever you need on this
path, the entrepreneurial path, the path
of wanting to create, grow, and build something. Yes,
well, you can contact me through the
set's website, my Twitter is
@jacquessaracco, any
messages are always welcome.
Likewise, thank you very much for everything. You can't
find me. As Rubén, who is a Twitter user, I
ask that you visit me if you need
me because I was a bit rude when answering,
but anyway, I don't want to start an argument.
Thank you, Mercedes, and everyone for
participating in this role. It was very helpful
today. I wish you a great weekend. See you soon.
Well, thank you all. I
invite you to follow us on
social media and download By Brandy
and try it out. There are many new things coming
to the app, so I
invite you to download it. It's available
on iOS and Android. And also, I'm at your
disposal if you need anything or
have any questions regarding this
case or Ireland.
On my end, thank you to the
panel. It's really great, everything you're
building is excellent. I'm very happy to be
here with you.
Greetings also to all the
entrepreneurs and everyone who wants to get
involved on this side or in any
blogging topic. I'm totally willing.
So, thank you very much, Mercedes, and to the
team. Thank you all very much, and
see you at the next Stellar event.
Thank you very much.